0:00 - 6:00



6:00 - 12:00



12:00 - 18:00
On the left side, is the transition radiation detector, followed by nine-layer of silicon tracker, followed by electromagnetic calorimeter, and then rain imaging cherenkov called RICH, a magnet, and then time of flight detector. 
In total, a third of a million electronic channels, 650 fast microprocessors, and this would develop specially by the laboratory of nuclear science of MIT. It has a dimension of 5 meters by 4 meters by 3 meters. It weighs 7.5 tons. 

The detectors can be broken into 5 classes. Each class, if you look horizontally, goes through the different particles, with different trace. So, each particle is identified five times, for whatever redundance. 
So If you look vertically, the electron, also TRD, flight tracker, these you don’t need to know, but if this trace proton ion positron, antiproton, antihelium, all these different traces. 
You measure the momentum, the units are billion electronvolt. Charge is the location and the periodic table, or the number of protons in the nucleus. Rigidity is a special term used in space, means momentum per unit charged. 
Energy, E: billion electron volts per number of protons and neutrons. Flux is the number of signals per second per units sum of angle per square meters per billion electrons. 
AMS is an international collaboration. The detectors was constructed in Europe and Asia, so the detectors really is not made in the United States, it is made by the Europeans and the Asians. 
The sample was tested at the European Organization for nuclear research, and European space agency. But this is not a NASA experiment. During the construction, many visitors, a particular notice is Stephen Hawking, who I have known for many years, and he came with eleven nurses and spent an afternoon with me. And also, Elon Musk came one time to see how we do such complicated experiments in space. 
So let me share with you the detector: the Transition Radiation Detector where electrons or positrons because they have small mass and they reach the speed of light really quickly - within a second. 
This detector is mostly made in Germany, and this is a group of German physicists. On the top right corner are two professors that worked with me for more than 40 years. I known this group there are too many good physicists, and this detector has 5248 tubes. 
These tubes is 2 meters large and filled with xenon and CO2 the center is 100 micrometers. How do you center such a thing with such accuracy? One of my collaborators (the tallest one in class) was the dean of science at the university, so if you visit a nice university hospital you can use the CAT machine to scan all the tubes, so 9000 tubes were made, 5000 were selected. 

So, there's a national effort from Germany working with me from Auchen, from Karlsruhe, from Munchen institute (they have very precise machine shop), and this on the lower left is a picture of the four astronauts that recently come to visit. 

The Magnet. The best permanent magnet material is in Mongolia, which is part of China. And therefore this magnet was made by the Chinese space agency. Because nobody has ever put a magnet in space, so we made 10 magnets. 
7 magnets to make sure the magnet has no torque, has no field leakage and can be constructed without iron. And so the magnetic field comes from two closed loops, therefore looking from outside, all the fields cancels each other, and therefore it does not rotate, and there has no field leakout, so the astronaut can be near the magnet. 
I found out that the astronauts’ life supporting system switches itself off at 60 gauss, and this would be unfortunate if you have field leakout. 

And why without iron? For the weight? 

There is no iron, because all the fields are inside, so you don’t need to trap the field. 

The three full size magnets were made, one has to do with space qualification, you need acceleration, vibration to simulate space. Another one is to do a destructive test, to understand at which point the magnet will fall apart.



18:00 - 24:00



24:00 - 30:00



30:00 - 36:00



36:00 - 42:00



42:00 - 48:00



48:00 - 54:00



54:00 - 1:01:27
Ting: So I thought to myself, one stop, out of four, after three we stop also
Other person: they might ...
Ting: and so I had a conversation with ..., they said no no no no no, to tank this pound(?), you need to cut eight lines through the atmosphere, its like a ..., it's never been done before, but some people I know particularly, I remember two names Gastmar and Tambolic(?), they found it very interesting. I told them, because it's never been done before, that's why it's interesting
Other person: its true
Ting: Finally, they managed to send the two ... and change the problem
Other person: they had a spare up there already?
Ting: No, we had to develop new parts
Other person: that's it. and ... the one faulty one with the other three
Ting: No no no, we just... exactly like how ..., we leave the old system, and connect for the new one. 
Other person: And nothing since 2014 then, it's been running good?
Ting: Yeah
Other person: what advice would you provide to children who have an interest in science, and how did your interest in science develop? We talked some on this but I'm sure there's more stories there. *Dr Ting thinks* You started out as a mechanical engineer. 
Ting: Yeah, I started as a mechanical engineer mainly because I didn't know what was going on. 
Other person: pretty typical 18-year old situation
Ting: Yeah. But my advisor at University of Michigan, in my second term, I just looked at my grades, said you are no mechanical enginner. So at that time, there were no computers, so you looked at the object from the top, from the side, from the end, and I couldn't draw a line through it(?) 
Other person: that's not good for a mechanical engineer
Ting: Yeah. Mr Robert White, my advisor. I wanted to study physics, and also study math. And I was going to take courses in the graduate school. So he was very supportive. At university, I realized I don't have to take social science classes, just constantly study physics and mathmatics (?). If theres anything that's very important to me, it's the University of Michigan. And, yeah. That's why I'm very very happy that a few days ago, ...
Other person: I knew you were a football fan, thats good to know
Ting: Yes, 42-27 (he's talking about Michigan vs Ohio state)
Other person: Wow that was a good beating too. Alright, well we are about out of time, actually we're officially out of time (event management stuff) Oh we have 15 minutes more? Oh okay, well do you mind if we continue? Ok, perfect. Another question that came through our audience: can you speak to the elements used in the magnets at ... 
Ting: Neodymium boron. Neodymium. It's the rarest, rarest material. It has a high magnetic... produce a high magnetic field, in North Mongolia(?). 
Other person: ... magnets were already taken out of China.
Ting: Yeah. 
Other person: I see. Did you consider any other sciences other than physics? Like why would your advisor said no on mechanical engineering, how
Ting: Also I got my bachelors degrees, and time to choose my thesis advice(?). So I got good grades, and so like most students with good grades at the time, I was thinking of doing theory. And at University of Michigan there was a very famous physicist, Uhlenbeck, George Uhlenbeck, he was the one who discovered that electrons had a spin in 1930s. So I wanted to become his student, after about a month, he invited all his students to his office, and he said, if I were to live my life over again, I would be an experimentalist rather than a theoriest. I was very surprised. So I asked him, why, he was a world famous physicist. And he said, well, I heard experimentalist is very useful, because you measure ... and average theorist is not. You look, count on your finger, in the 20th century, there's Einsetin, there's Maxwell, there's ..., and there's Heisenberg. So after this conversation, I remember I now take a walk, I come back, and said I agree with you, I believe you. 
Other Person: So did you stay at the University of Michigan? 
Ting: Yes, yes
Other person: oh, with a different experimental physicist then
Ting: Well first I went to the ... I knew absolutely nothing
Other person: okay, so how about: does the AMS require a power source, and what kind, and how long does it last?
Ting: It gets its power from solar panels. On the space station there are a lot of solar panels; we need 2.5 kilowatts, which is a very small amount. 
Other person: I see, so say it doesn't require a lot. Of the power of the space station. And I think you were mentioning before too, what is the plan for decommissioning for your piece of the space station, or is that something we don't know? 
Ting: Uh, I was in Kennedy Space Station with my wife yesterday, and there was something that came up; when we were in orbit, something burned off. 

1:01:27 - End

